# Comparison of Longitudinal Trajectories Using a High-Dimensional Partial Linear Semiparametric Mixed-Effects Model

Code/CreateBases.R: The R script contains functions dedicated to generating the basis functions used in modeling nonlinear relationships.

Code/CreateSim.R: The R script contains functions to simulate datasets. Additionally, it includes a function named "plot.fit" designed to visualize estimated trajectories and nonlinear functions against the true values from the simulated data.

Code/modelselection.R: The R script contains a function that runs our method for various hyperparameter values, calculates selection criteria (BIC, BICC, or EBIC), and returns the model associated with the lowest selected criterion.

Code/plmmlasso.R: The R script contains the main function "plmmlasso" for fitting the model using the PLMM algorithm.

Code/posi.R: The R script contains the function debias.plmm enabling post-selection inference on the fixed-effects generated by the plmmlasso function.

Code/test.nonlinear.functions.R: The R script contains functions to compute bootstrapped p-values for the overall test of equality of the nonlinear functions and bootstrapped joint confidence intervals for the difference between the nonlinear functions.

Code/set.zero.constraint.R: The R script contains an alternate version of the plmmlasso function, which applies a 'set-to-zero' constraint instead of the 'mean-zero' constraint.

Code/lasso_inference.R: The R script contains functions to compute the debiased lasso using the method described in of A. Javanmard, A. Montanari "Confidence intervals and hypothesis testing for high-dimensional regression".

Code/OMEI_Table5.Figure5.S.2.R: The R script shows the code used for the OMEI real data application (Table 5, Figure 5, Figure S.2). To ensure data privacy, the original dataset has been replaced with a synthetic data (OMEI_synth.xlsx). As a result, all tables and figures generated will differ from those presented in the paper.

The following R scripts reproduce the figures and tables from the simulations:
Code/Figure1.R
Code/Figure2.R
Code/Figure3.R
Code/Figure4.R
Code/FigureS1.R

Code/Table1.R
Code/Table2.R
Code/Table3.R
Code/Table4.R

Note that some of these R scripts may not reproduce the figures and tables from the paper exactly. To obtain identical results, the full grids for lambda (lambda.grid) and gamma (gamma.grid) should be used, rather than just a subset. Additionally, instead of using n.sim = 2, 100 or 200 simulations should be run, and 10,000 bootstrap samples should be used.
